{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.21">3.2.21 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.22
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.23">&rarr; 3.2.23</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 * Allow file provides globs to specify to multiple pkgs: "install '/usr/bin/*'".
 * Change users from caching to own dirs. Allow them to makecache.
 * Output message about possible ways forward, when depsolving fails.
 * Sort lots of things internally, so the fail the same ways across machines.
 * Skip ftp URLs for hosts we have http URLs for.
 * Add highlighting for update/etc. showing which pkgs are on disk.
 * Move some "verbose" messages to be "debug only".
 * Show groupid in verbose mode of groupinfo.
 * Don't print a download total time, if there were errors.
 * Use better "providers resolution" algo. on install by dep.
 * Output transaction details, in quiet mode, when assumeyes isn't on.
 * Allow mirrorlist to point to metalink data, and auto change it (must contain the string /metalink).

== Resource improvement changes ==

 * Speedup some repo/configuration stuff, yum list now firmly under a second.
 * Fixup "preload" when using getCacheDir() cache directories.
 * Move to 6h default for metadata_expire.
 * Speedup returnLeafNodes().
 * Don't limit obsoletes to newest in "yum install", when it doesn't matter.

== API changes ==

 * Allow mirrorlist to point to metalink data.
 * Complete support for sha256, and make it the default (need hashlib).
 * Allow getCacheDir() to use truly temporary directories.
 * Add preconf.

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.22 - 155 commits: Tue Mar 24 16:07:58 2009 -0400
44 files changed,  6,755 insertions(+),  2,541 deletions(-)
29 files changed,  1,010 insertions(+),    513 deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}
