{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.4.3">3.4.3 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.4.4
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.4.5">&rarr; 3.4.5</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 * fail when sigCheckPkg() returns 2 in yum-cron.
 * Add "groups mark blacklist" command to get out of the upgrade problem.
 * Show groups being installed/upgraded in groups as objects mode.
 * Have "yum group upgrade" do all, as "yum upgrade" does in objs. mode.
 * Change groupupdate command to call "group update" back compat. too confusing.
 * Lots of groups UI/process fixes.
 * Add check-update sub-command to repo-pkgs.
 * Add command variation aliases to check-update.
 * Add deltarpm_metadata_percentage config. so people can configure MD downloads.
 * Add autocheck_running_kernel config. so people can turn it off.
 * Add upgrade_group_objects_upgrade config. so people can turn it off.
 * Add distupgrade command as alias for distro-sync, to be compat. with zypper.
 * Add cache check to repolist, using "!". Document repoinfo.
 * Add a "--disableincludes" option to yum.
 * Fix downgrade keeping .reason, note that remove+install doesn't.
 * Inherit reason from install package into txmbr.
 * handle "No Groups Available" exception.
 * Add debuglevels -2, -3, -4. Main user is yum-cron.
 * Add simple way to specify a group of pkgs. for version.
 * Change group install => group upgrade for installed groups.
 * Give more text when telling user about y-c-t, mention history.
 * Skip installonly limit, if something has set check_future_rpmdbv.
 * Add a fssnapshot command, and a few fssnap_* config. options for taking FS snapshots.
 * Use "real" yum logging for updateinfo parsing errors.
 * support "proxy = libproxy" syntax to enable libproxy.
 * Add a fuzzy matcher for numbers in format_missing_requires.
 * Add the "minrate" config. option.
 * Do a few changes to make the updateinfo command more user friendly (more fnmatches, can drop CVE prefix, reorder args. etc.).
 * Don't highlight the empty space, Eg. --showdups list.
 * Add downloadonly option to userconfirm download prompt.
 * Use updateinfo from yum-cron (so we can do security only updates).
 * Merge updateinfo command, --security, etc. into core.
 * Reuse mirrors when max_retries > len(mirrors).
 * Add hourly cron as well as daily.
 * Ignore case for deplist command.
 * Add "makecache fast", instead of having to do "clean expire-cache"+chk.
 * Don't ask users to file a bug when rpmdb is inconsistent.
 * Integrate deltarpm into core, can rebuild drpms while downloading rpms now.
 * Add "list distro-extras", which is like extras but ignores version/arch.
 * Automatically expire caches (yum clean expire-cache) on repo errors.
 * Use xattr data as well as file size for "fast checksumming".
 * Have load-ts list the possible transaction files with some data.
 * Fix problems with mirrors like wtfnix.com, delete bad MD files.
 * Fix yum-cron service file for systemd, add conversion code.
 * Add a fake requires for pyxattr, knowing origin_url is worth 62k.
 * Add ui_repoid_vars configuration, so repos. can show which vars they are using.
 * Dump "all" yum variables into the yumdb.
 * Add repopkgsremove_leaf_only and remove_leaf_only config. options.
 * Add a repo-pkgs command, to treat a repo. as a set of packages.
 * Add a swap command, for simple shell cases.
 * Add a metadata_expire_filter configuration, and use it in the shipped commands.
 * Don't error in history list, when we have no history.
 * Fix "0" epoch matching for nevra on installed packages.
 * Move to new yum-cron.py, uses yum API directly does background downloading/etc.
 * Add requirement on pyliblzma.
 * Merge downloadonly plugin into core, do background downloading with downloadonly.
 * handle re.compile() errors, Eg. [b-a].
 * Don't skip loadts new rpmdbv check, when transaction changes.
 * If ignoremissing is on in load-ts and something is missing, turn ignorenew on.
 * Ignore --installroot=// etc. as a command line option.
 * Add repoinfo command to do repolist -v.
 * Add --show-duplicates alias, for repoquery compat.
 * Add code to merge the refs/pkgs of two "identical" updateinfo errata.
 * Add .ui_id to repos. showing $releasever/$basearch.
 * Move to using urlgrabber's multi file progress.
 * Better UI for installed/available and lang/pkg/env, in groups list/summary.
 * Add all the resources in the repomd, when using mdpolicy=group:all
 * Show giant message about mutilib errors, to help people understand.
 * Add support for installing/removing/etc. 'environment groups'.
 * Add the opt. commands: remove-n, remove-na, remove-nevra. Like install-*
 * Add autoremove alias for clean_reqs_on_remove, for apt ppl (also no arg. functionality).
 * Make tolerant turn on recheck_installed_reqs ... maybe similar tradeoffs.
 * quote uids to keep cachedir ascii-clean. 
 * add 'max_connections' and 'async' config. options, do parallel downloads and merge timedhosts.
 * Handle empty arguments passed to commands a lot better (Eg. yum provides "").
 * Check for a compat. arch. as well, when hand testing for upgradability in install.
 * exit(1) when all reinstall/downgrade args. are bad.
 * Make resolvedep output nicer, as people misparse the mock build output.
 * If we are doing: "yum info installed blah" don't do the highlights.
 * add support for 64 bit arm hardware.
 * Added ssl_check_cert_permissions config. option, to workaround unreadable certs.
 * Add kernel-highlight colour config. option (for running kernel).
 * Add a recheck_installed_requires config. option.
 * make --setopt take globs for the repo setopts, Eg. yum --setopt='*.skip_if_unavailable=1' update.
 * Search for other installed packages, for available lists in "all".
 * Add group_command=object config., documentation, module and UI.
 * Try comparing provides versions, if they all match.
 * do globs on provides in 'yum install'.
 * Have users always use own dirs.
 * Give name of pkg. and GPG urls when failed to install key. CKS/YumCryptoFail.
 * Add mddownloadpolicy, so people can config. yum to use XML instead of sqlite.
 * verifyTransaction progress, creates verify_txmbr() functions on RPMTransaction() and RPMBaseCallback() classes.
 * Add simple install-n etc. functions for rel-eng.
 * arm hardfp support
 * Extend the output of listTrans details for quiet mode, and not assumyes.
 * Add reset_nice configuration, and turn it on by default.
 * Ignore time skew by using sqlite IDs instead to order yum history transactions.
 * Output the GPG fingerprint when showing the GPG key.
 * Allow force-reinstall and force-remove as leading arguments for history redo.
 * Let resolvedep look for installed packages, and make it a hidden command.
 * Add lots of pkg attributes like pkg.na and pkg.evra etc. (mainly useful for repoquery).
 * Separate out dep. pkgs from pkgs. in trans. summary, and use dynamic lengths in trans summary.
 * Add summary for skipped/not installed/not available.
 * Add upgrade_requirements_on_install config. option.
 * Add ip_resolve config. option.
 * Add hack to work around broken python readline handling in "yum shell".
 * Accept old outputs of "yum -q history addon-info saved_tx" in load-ts command/API.
 * Make "yum -q history addon-info last saved_tx" valid input for load-ts.
 * Add "history packages-info/stats/sync" sub-commnands.
 * Add extra data to the history DB, we now have historic records for a few rpmdb/yumdb entries.
 * Add load-ts to the man page.
 * Don't warn about already installed packages in "group install".
 * yum-cron now has a command, and the code got tidied up a lot.
 * Output the yum_save.yumtx file on user cancel and GPG fail (and tidy the filename a bit).
 * Add --assumeno, which does the opposite of --assumeyes.
 * Allow "remove" to use the alwaysprompt logic (default is still alwaysprompt=true).
 * Give a message when rpmdb fails to find releasever, when it said it could.

== Significant bugfixes ==

 * fail when sigCheckPkg() returns 2 in yum-cron.
 * Lots of groups UI/process fixes.
 * Add loop limit for depsolving.
 * Fix some bugs in setopt for repo config. entries. Eg. Split repoid.config_name on the last dot instead of the first.
 * Try to smooth out the edge cases for cacheReq not ever updating data.
 * Add epoch to updateinfo xml output.
 * checkMD: re-check when xattr matches but size==0.
 * Add "weak" comps. groups, for installed groups. For comps.return_groups(). Use new comps. mock objects to re-integrate group removal.
 * Deal with multiple winners in providers vercmp (usually multilib).
 * Pass the req. name (_reqFromTrans) into compare_providers, for provs. vercmp.
 * Override users umask for groups files, so users can read it.
 * handle "No Groups Available" exception.
 * Fix parsing of power7+ platform string.
 * Get correct rpmdb path from rpm configuration.
 * Reset igroups in .closeRpmDB(), undo'ing all .add_groups() data.
 * Check for bad checksum types at runtime.
 * Skip installonly limit, if something has set check_future_rpmdbv.
 * Resurrect diskspacecheck=0 functionality and enable inode problem filtering too on diskspacecheck=0
 * Include the update date if available in the generate updateinfo xml.
 * Fixes extra '</pkglist>' tags on multi-collection errata.
 * Fix circular obsoletes in transaction members check.
 * Fix "0" epoch matching for nevra on installed packages.
 * Don't quick fail for excludes that start with [foo] character lists.
 * A solution to the obsoletes but don't provide problem.
 * Fix for ppc64p7 arch. detection.
 * Fix weird edge case for isntallonly, when we install N kernels at once.
 * Don't traceback in hisotry stats, when we have no transactions.
 * honor proxy=_none_ again.
 * Fix UpdateNotice.getitem when asked for iteration, add contains.
 * Fix test_loop, previously it always failed the first obs. chain.
 * Create "strong requires", and use that for recheck on upgrade.
 * Search for other installed packages, for available lists in "all".
 * Quote 'proxy_username' and 'proxy_password'.
 * Add getcwd() check as well as open(".") check.
 * Init "found" variable for distro-sync full.
 * Fix _conv_pkg_state when calling with history as checksum.
 * When a repo. fails in repolist, manually populate the ones after it.
 * Ignore lock held by a zombie process.
 * Add fix for upgrade with same reqs. "Forces" upgrade.
 * Workaround the rpm change of obsoletes are conflicts mess.
 * Use the correct test to see if the INSERT worked, for RHEL-5 sqlite.
 * handle signatures which are not directly following the pub key but are elsewhere in the key info.
 * Fix problems with using old generated data.
 * Don't traceback on --setopt=foo and --setopt=foo=1=1.
 * Workaround rpm-python size braindamage.
 * Handle ENOSPC when creating lock files.
 * Sort data for XML generation.
 * Fixes required for createreop SQL update code.
 * Fix traceback when enabling/disabling repos.
 * Don't output \r to non-tty's.
 * Override the umask settings for yum makedir() as well as open().
 * Ingore EACCESS errors on yumdb stat calls.
 * Fix "not found" code when calling with pkgtups.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 * Fix needTs check with repo-pkgs list/info.
 * Add deltarpm_metadata_percentage config. so people can configure MD downloads.
 * Add autocheck_running_kernel config. so people can turn it off.
 * Add upgrade_group_objects_upgrade config. so people can turn it off.
 * Add yum-makecache systemd service, force network updates on for better UI.
 * Add loop limit for depsolving.
 * Try to smooth out the edge cases for cacheReq not ever updating data.
 * Make mdpolicy=group:small default, add group and pkgtags.
 * Preload from root cache when --cacheonly.
 * Remove repos.findRepos("*"), for repos.sort().
 * Don't slow path simple non-installed package names. (Eg. yum list zzuf).
 * override mdpolicy in yum-cron and turn metadata_expire off, so we always try to download all data in yum-cron.
 * speed up /proc/cpuinfo parsing.
 * Add a metadata_expire_filter configuration, and use it in the shipped commands.
 * Add the opt. commands: remove-n, remove-na, remove-nevra. Like install-*
 * If we are doing: "yum info installed blah" don't do the highlights.
 * Don't require pkgSack setup for local install/reinstall/upgrade/downgrade.
 * Change tsInfo.setDatabases() so we don't have to setup the pkgSack.
 * Make searchFiles() a bit faster.
 * Only update the XML => sqlite progress ~1% of the time.
 * Add simple install-n etc. functions for rel-eng.

== API changes ==

 * Mostly backwards compat. change to how distroverpkg config. works.
 * Reset igroups in .closeRpmDB(), undo'ing all .add_groups() data.
 * Add fssnap module, and YumBase.fssnap property (can view/manipulate snapshots).
 * Use "real" yum logging for updateinfo parsing errors.
 * Extend findRepos() so it can work like repolist.
 * Add updateinfo module.
 * Add .upinfo YumBase property for updateinfo.
 * Add timestamps to the transaction object, for created and changed time.
 * Add obvious __ne__ to call __eq__ for updateinfo notices.
 * Include environments when writing comps.
 * Add .ui_id to repos. showing $releasever/$basearch.
 * Minimally teach yum about rpm >= 4.10 scriptlet start and stop callbacks.
 * Add support for parsing 'environment groups'.
 * Add a simple checkfunc if we don't have one, for pkg d/l.
 * Add a pkgdict argument to packages.parsePackages().
 * Fix UpdateNotice.getitem when asked for iteration, add contains.
 * Allow changing the exit code on non-fatal errors.
 * Added generic installonlypkg(kernel-module) and installonlypkg(vm).
 * Create "strong requires" for packages.
 * Add helper function to access the fingerprint in the GPG key info data.
 * Add returnInstalledPackageByDep() to pair with returnPackageByDep().
 * Add ui_evr property to packages.
 * Can now lookup a package in history, without creating a pkgtup entry for it.
 * Have a pkg_warn keyword for install now, only used by "group install" atm.
 * Adds a bunch of API documentation, see: [/api/yum here].

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.4.4 -  ?? commits: Tue Jan 14 15:29:03 2014 -0500

?? files changed, ??,??? insertions(+), ??,??? deletions(-)
?? files changed,    ??? insertions(+),    ??? deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}
