{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.22">3.2.22 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.23
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.24">&rarr; 3.2.24</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 * Add '''downgrade''' command.
 * It is now possible to reinstall local packages.
 * It is now possible to reinstall obsoleted packages, without having to change the automatic obsolete processing configuration option.
 * Yum has added it's own database, '''yumdb''', which gets filled with information as you install/update/etc. packages. This let's yum know where the package came from, why it was installed, etc.
   * yum list will now show which packages an installed package came from (Eg. instead of "installed" it might say "@fedora").
 * Transaction output about requires/conflicts now includes the full nevra information (instead of just the package name).
 * We use the nevra instead of just the package name for package installs/updates.
 * We try to convert the package name to an nevra for package removals.
 * We know prefer packages that provide what we asked for in their latest versions.
 * Add message about options in yum-utils/etc. when we have a dependency problem.
 * Change the sort criteria when downloading packages, from smallest to alphanumeric.
 * Add grouping of options to yum --help.
 * Add the latest update time from metalink to "yum repolist -v", so you can see if you have the latest repo. metadata.
 * Add group id's to grouplist -v.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 * We don't bother doing a checksum on local packages.
 * Check to see if something that could be a local package ends in .rpm, before we stat() it.
 * Speed up searchNames() when we've loaded everything already.
 * Speed up our utf8 text wrap implementation.
 * Don't load file lists in some edge cases Eg. yum provides "perl(*)"
 * Cache verifyLocalPkg() successes.

== API changes ==

 * All installed packages have a yumdb_info member.
 * We now do include object length in our checksum tests, include for repo. metadata (if a new enough createrepo was used that it's available).
 * GenericHolder() now has a default attribute, mainly useful for when using doPackageLists().
 * skip-broken now happens before postresolve_hook.
 * Add downgrade() function.
 * Allow pkgtup= to be used in install/update/remove/reinstall/downgrade.

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.23 - 173 commits: Tue May 19 15:54:50 2009 -0400
48 files changed,  8,208 insertions(+),  4,789 deletions(-)
31 files changed,  1,375 insertions(+),    461 deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}
