{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.24">3.2.24 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.25
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.26">&rarr; 3.2.26</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 * Verify package now does not report broken symlinks as missing.
 * Check if excludes are disabled for local packages.
 * Option mpolicy is now a list, so you can list MD types directly.
 * Preserve yumdb_info.reason=dep across updates.
 * Show obsoletes in check-update, if the obsoletes flag is on.
 * Added yum history command.
 * Added version-groups, so you can get "rpmdb versions" for for subsets of packages.
 * Obsoletes of updates win out in compare_providers.
 * Allow repolist to run without any repodata (as long as not in verbose mode).
 * Check rpmdb version against last history entry, and complain if they don't match.
 * Sort reinstall/download output in the transaction output.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 * Drop pkgtup2pkgs cache (introduced in 3.2.24, I think).
 * Make returnLeafNodes() a faster/smaller.
 * Special, fast, sqlite queries for "/path/to/*" searches.
 * Skip broken now does more efficient scanning of packages for updates/obsoletes.
 * Speedup to rpmdb version generation, when we only want the main version.

== API changes ==

 * Add history classes and APIs.
 * Add registerPackageName() to plugin classes.
 * If the lock file can't be created don't raise the generic lockfile error (that's used to mean the file is locked). 
 * Ability to easily run yum command inside pdb.
 * Add misc.getloginuid().

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.25 - 116 commits: Wed Oct 14 14:50:40 2009 -0400
48 files changed,  12,217 insertions(+),   5,243 deletions(-)
25 files changed,   1,791 insertions(+),     204 deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}
