{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.8"></a>
  What's new in 3.2.9
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.10">&rarr; 3.2.10</a>
</h1>
}}}

This release was basically broken, use [wiki:whatsnew/3.2.10 yum-3.2.10] instead which was the bugfix release for this release.

== User Interface changes ==

 *  Group MD downloads, mdpolicy config.
 *   Add profiling option into main yum command
 *  Don't search pkg.group and pkg.packager
 *   Show already downloaded pkg sizes
 *   Wrap search output
 *  Add comparison ops to pkgs
 *   Change str(pkg)
 *  Make --skip-broken code core
 *   Print full pkg names/repos in depsolving errors
 *   Don't add log handlers twice
 *   Split cmd line options on comma, whitespace, etc.
 *  Change default metadata_expire from 30 mins to 90 mins.
 *  Add Seconds option, so you can do mirrorlist_expire = 1d etc.
 *   Don't run an empty transaction
 *  Don't accept random stuff for y/N
 *   Present sqlite errors as repo errors.
 *   Fix disk space needed results
 *   Fix gpg user id's

== Resource improvement changes ==

 *  list/info processing direct to SQL
 *   Skip pkg processing incompat-arch repos
 *  Don't search pkg.group and pkg.packager
 *   Cache .lower() result in searches
 *   Share prco data between pkgs
 *  Search processing direct to SQL
 *   Don't use pkg.pkgtup for just pkg.arch
 *   Don't resort transaction each loop iteration
 *   Don't create arrays just to read-only iterate
 *   Cache pkg.pkgtup
 *   Cache hash(pkg)
 *   Use pkg.pkgKey instead of pkg.pkgId
 *   Don't create multiple instances of pkgs
 *   Obsoletes speed ups
 *   Don't create all the pkgs, just to get the number of them
 *   Cache .lower() result in buildPkgRefDict()
 *   Don't rebuild pkgobjlist, make simplePkgList() based on returnPackages()
 *  Change default metadata_expire from 30 mins to 90 mins.

== API changes ==

 *  Group MD downloads, mdpolicy config.
 *  list/info processing direct to SQL
 *  Add comparison ops to pkgs
 *   Add allowed ranges to Int config. options
 *  Make --skip-broken code core
 *  Search processing direct to SQL
 *  Add Seconds option, so you can do mirrorlist_expire = 1d etc.

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.9  - 135 commits: Thu Jan 24 17:29:28 2008 -0500
33 files changed,  2,964 insertions(+),   801 deletions(-)
24 files changed,  1,572 insertions(+),   790 deletions(-) [main]
}}}
