{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.20">3.2.20 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.21
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.22">&rarr; 3.2.22</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 *   Add '''reinstall''' command.
 *   Can include the same file in multiple config. sections.
 *   Write a '''usable, utf8 aware, textwrap''' for "info" description and others.
   * Also created a utf8 aware "character width" which is also now used instead of counting bytes.
 *   When --showduplicates is on, we'll now show reinstall available versions.
 *   Add '''configurable color/highlighting''' for list/info/groupinfo/search.
 *   Add --color option, to force ANSI colors to pipe's etc.
 *   Highlight list available data for newest/older/available.
 *   Highlight list install "extra" packages.
 *   Dynamic columns in repolist, and never truncate the repoid.
 *   Add Repo line into search -v output.
 *   Do the update available highlighting in yum list installed.
 *   Parse arguments to grouplist, to only matches (like list/etc.).
 *   check-update -v shows obsoletes.

== Resource improvement changes ==

== API changes ==

 *  Add utf8_width() functions and use it to get nice output for non-en.
 *   Add reinstall_available and old_available to doPackageLists().
 *  Change the default for obsoletes processing to be true.
 *  Work with the latest version of MM metalink support.

=== Devleoper stats. ===

{{{
3.2.21 - 131 commits: Fri Feb 8 14:03:54 2009 -0500
40 files changed,  7,044 insertions(+),  4,058 deletions(-)
23 files changed,  1,301 insertions(+),    322 deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}
