{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.16">3.2.16 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.17
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.18">&rarr; 3.2.18</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 *   Don't die if mirrorlist fetching fails, and we have an old one.
 *   Do real SQL escaping, so _ and % should dtrt everywhere now.
 *  Fix list to do matches ignoring case (broken since 3.2.10).
 *   Make --version much more useful.
 *   Do total progress resets, so it doesn't go astray on bad downloads.
 *   Nicer error messages when groups aren't configured.
 *   Always log in C locale time.
 *   Wrap output for large packages names in "yum list" output.
 *  Do specspo lookups for search/provides verbose output.
 *   Add build/install/commit times to info output.
 *   Can now import multiple keys from a single gpg key file.
 *   Tweak provides output to be more useful, and explain *bin/foo lookups.
 * Allow y/n in all locales as long as there is no overlap.
 *   Add number of packages in repo to repolist output, and total.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 *   Faster lookup for installed providers.
 *  Package version only comparison API, remove pkg.EVR usage.
 *   Do single load package creations for some SQL queries.
 *  Add searchNames() API to v. quickly convert group names to pkgs.
 *   Speedup large prco data (needed for 1,000s of kernel provides)
 *  Turn off SQL "fast" matching if given "lots" of terms.

== API changes ==

 *   postresolve hook runs after installonlyn magic.
 *  Turn off SQL "fast" matching if given "lots" of terms.

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.17 -  89 commits: Tue Jul 8 17:31:20 2008 -0400
27 files changed,  2,295 insertions(+), 1,327 deletions(-)
15 files changed,    676 insertions(+),   292 deletions(-) [main]
}}}
