{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.14">3.2.14 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.15
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.16">&rarr; 3.2.16</a>
</h1>
}}}

This release was basically broken, use [wiki:whatsnew/3.2.16 yum-3.2.16] instead which was the bugfix release for this release.

== User Interface changes ==

 *   Allow ':' chars in repo id's (SuSE repos need this).
 *   Manage being behind a protected AP better for mirrorlists.
 *  Work around so we accept 4 year old metadata (now non-std.)
 *   Add comma/wildcard support to groups.
 *   More rpm magic to make C-c work again.
 *   Don't chop translated names.
 *   Internal progress bar tweaks to match current urlgrabber.
 *   Download smallest packages first.
 *  Add translation names to grouplist/groupinfo.
 *  Add support for groups with the same name but differen ids.
 *   Fix anaconda special exceptions.
 *   Add "obsoleting" message.
 *  Fix "yum list install / extras" to work again with no args.
 *  Huge translation fixes, and fixes for for i18n tracebacks.
 *  Add gaftonmode to turn translations off.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 *   Undo pre-load for requires.
 *   Don't look for file deps. when we don't have to.

== API changes ==

 *  Add support for groups with the same name but differen ids.
 *   Fix anaconda special exceptions.
 *  Fix "yum list install / extras" to work again with no args.


=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.15 -  82 commits: Wed May 14 17:05:37 2008 -0400
32 files changed,  4,811 insertions(+), 1,883 deletions(-)
18 files changed,    474 insertions(+),   238 deletions(-) [main]
}}}
