{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.29">3.2.29 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.4.0
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.4.1">&rarr; 3.4.1</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 * Don't spam usage info. for missing arguments.
 * Add history_list_view option, and change the default to 1user-cmds.
 * Warn about weird curl/NSS basename checking of cert. files.
 * Add update-to and upgrade-to.
 * Add "distro-sync full".
 * Cleanup deplist output, changes behaviour on --showduplicates and -v now.
 * Allow only some GPG keys to be installed.
 * Pass any arguments to check-update to the obsoletes data, as well as the update data.
 * Fix printing the obsoleters message.
 * "remove foo" doesn't look at repodata for "maybe you meant".
 * Store the transaction in the history as the "saved_tx" addon data.
 * Show from_repo is history output (tries loading repos. in some cases)
 * Auto. import CA keys we've agreed to use for other repos.
 * Show the first URL we'll try in repolist -v.
 * Stop checking for the lock, if we'll never be able to create it.
 * config(noreplace) on the yum-cron files, as they can be altered by the user.
 * SKIPBROKEN prefix added to it's debug output.

== Significant bugfixes ==

 * Fix dropCachedDataPostTransaction() generating the wrong rpmdbv's on reinstall.
 * Work around people changing their umask (for "public" data like yumdb).
 * Fix some more bugs in --skip-broken.
 * Make -- work with first pass options parsing.
 * Allow RHEL-5 yum-utils/yumdownloader to work again.
 * Deal with yumvars in config. files, when saving.
 * Don't do the "normal" protected_packages processing on kernel's.
 * Fix variable name typo in verify.
 * Allow 32bit clients to download/checksum > 2GB package files.
 * ts.check() is not optional anymore, due to rpmlib() deps. (among others).
 * Hide invalid XML in updateinfo.
 * Write out the sourcerpm tag, even if empty, for old yum-2.4.x clients.
 * Fix bugs in persistdir setup.
 * Fix testcase snafu.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 * Don't keep hdr's around for installed packages, ever.
 * Changes to the layer interacting with rpm transactions to avoid memory usage.

== API changes ==

 * Add API keyword for update-to and upgrade-to functionality.
 * Add a new opt-in callback mode, for the rpm transaction using API.

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.4.0 - 107 commits: Thu Apr 14 16:50:06 2011 -0400

25 files changed,  1,886 insertions(+),    468 deletions(-)
15 files changed,    724 insertions(+),    403 deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}
