{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.26">3.2.26 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.27
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.28">&rarr; 3.2.28</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 * Fix sorting issue with search and pkgtags.
 * Don't issue warnings when downgrading multilib packages, where both arches aren't installed.
 * Prefer to overflow the last columns, in column output. So "yum list | fgrep" has a better chance of working.
 * Explain what to do with "package does not match intended download error" error.

== Significant bugfixes ==

 * Make skipbroken run again when packages are added in postresolve (Eg. langpacks).
 * Allow pkgtag (and hence yum) be loaded on RHEL-5 / python 2.4 environments.
 * Process obsoletes only for the newest packages, again. 
 * SearchPrco() will now do specific results - not just matches against name.
 * Can upgrade kernel packages again.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 * Much faster returnObsoletes(newest=True), requires newer python/sqlite (fast searchNames()).
 * Add "cache" of yumdb package checksum data.
 * Don't preload all of the yumdb paths.
 * Don't load all of the rpmdb packages in matchPackageNames (remove, and probably others).

== API changes ==

 * All package object derived classes are "scriptable". Eg. ("%(ui_nevra)s - %(ui_from_repo)s" % pkg).
 * Added misc.string_to_prco_tuple() which is a reversal of misc.prco_tuple_to_string().

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.27 -  45 commits: Thu Mar 18 14:21:57 2010 -0400

27 files changed,   9,914 insertions(+),   5,498 deletions(-)
14 files changed,     376 insertions(+),     197 deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}
