{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.19">3.2.19 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.20
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.21">&rarr; 3.2.21</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 *   Change the downloading metadata text to use the index name.
 *   Catch repo/mirror errors and revert, if possible.
 *   Change internal progress bars to be dynamic.
 *   Cleanup post transaction text.
 *   React to terminal size changes better for yum output.
 *   Add metalink support to repos.
 *   Add "maybe you meant" to update/remove.
 *   Try and catch plugin exceptions.
 *   groupremove can now work wihout metadata from the repos. (needs group data)
 *   Fix grouplist sorting, now uses display_order.
 *   Dynamically size check-update.
 *  Sort group package names properly for XML/UI.
 *   Use calcColumns in groupinfo, list. Tweak list obsoletes output.
 *   Emit warning and point to yum-complete-transaction, when needed.
 * Allow special remove only transactions, which don't need network.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 *   Speed up includepkgs.
 *   Fix corner case of large (1000s) of exclude package names.
 * Allow special remove only transactions, which don't need network.

== API changes ==

 *    Fix installed size for metadata/local packages.
 *   Add timestamp_check option, so API users can turn off check.
 *   Add revision/tags support to the repoMD object.
 *   Make yb.term.columns be a dynamic property.
 * Add metalink support to repos.
 *   checksum() can do multiple algos. on a single file.
 *   Add ui_ properties to the comps. objects.
 *   Create calcColumns API for outputting dynamically sized columns of data.
 *   returnPackages() will now always filter to patterns.
 * Allow special remove only transactions, which don't need network.

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.20 - 104 commits: Mon Oct 27 16:11:52 2008 -0400
41 files changed,  7,519 insertions(+), 12,763 deletions(-)
20 files changed,  1,358 insertions(+),    428 deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}