{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.4.1">3.4.1 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.4.2
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.4.3">&rarr; 3.4.3</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 * Add gettext plurals support.
 * Turn an erase name into a txmbr, when we can (kernel in yum.log etc.).
 * Don't print "Finished dependency resolution" when we haven't (--skip-broken).
 * Sort "duplicate" packages better for search.
 * Tweak output of "yum provides", show installed repos. etc.
 * Add a "groups" sub-command (compat. for old groupinstall/etc. are there).
 * Change clean_requirements_on_remove to deal better with chains of deps.
 * Output list of packages we couldn't find, for upgrade/remove/install/downgrade/reinstall (only via. history undo/load-ts)
 * Don't say "Complete!" if we didn't run the transaction.
 * Create transaction-done files correctly for removal only transactions.
 * Fix more unicode braindamage (groupremove).
 * Show which repo. doesn't have a gpgkey.
 * Have all commands do sane things with in quiet mode.
 * Make "yum provides" more usable, by searching for commands or python modules.
 * Add "repofile" to repolist -v output.
 * Add "history rollback" command.
 * Allow "last" in merged transactions, fix some bugs in other usage.

== Significant bugfixes ==

 * Fix leaked file descriptor in logging.
 * Fix another bug in libc collapsing code (only a single libc entry in rpm).
 * Mark failed transaction members when we detect them.
 * arm now has an "arm" basearch.
 * Use the timestamp_check to determine if we can revert, when we don't download anything (repodiff/etc.).
 * Work around RHEL-5 python's getlocale() call (Eg. LANG=en_IN).
 * Don't list repos. in the "saved-transaction", if we are doing a remove only transaction.
 * Fix collapse_libc_requires for the latest glibc versions.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 * Don't list repos. in the "saved-transaction", if we are doing a remove only transaction.
 * Don't use .up object on package install.

== API changes ==

 * Fix for pulp using RepoStorage.
 * Fix for _retrievePublicKey() when called without a repo.
 * Also ignore ENOTDIR in stat_f.

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.4.2 -  63 commits: Wed Jun 22 16:58:09 2011 -0400

59 files changed, 66,155 insertions(+), 21,726 deletions(-)
17 files changed,    690 insertions(+),    240 deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}
