{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.28">3.2.28 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.29
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.4.0">&rarr; 3.4.0</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 * Add yum-cron as a sub-package.
 * Added locking for non-root users, using cachedir.
 * Add GPG CA keys functionality.
 * Allow "ranges" of transactions in list/summary/pkg-list (works like merged transactions).
 * If a package has a "url" xattr, store that in the yumdb.
 * Sig. check one package from each repo. as we download, so we get the errors early.
 * Warn when groupinstall will do nothing.
 * Add protected_multilib config. option.
 * Split "langonly" groups out from "normal" groups.
 * clean functions will now remove any sqlite-journal files.
 * Warn when a users does a "merged first option", Eg. "-vc blah".
 * Add remove-with-leaves to core, but use yumdb.reason option=clean_requirements_on_remove.
 * Normalize filenames when doing lookups, Eg. "yum provides".
 * Split search patterns, if we get too many.
 * Fix/allow remove+update, and update+remove in "yum shell".
 * Add localpkg_gpgcheck option.
 * Allow users to pass relative installroot paths.
 * Allow users to see merged hisotry transactions (Eg. info 1..4)
 * Give the package name in the error message, if we fail to open the header.
 * Add "history package-list" sub-command, so you can easily see what happened to specific packages.
 * Add "yum shell" data to history, as an addon.
 * Add username/password Basic auth configuration options.
 * Compare providers tweak, mark down older than installed packages.
 * When doing searches, first try just name+summary. Can use "search all" for everything.
 * Tweak the format_missing_requires text, to include same name different versions.
 * Add --releasever=/, to use the current releasever (useful for installroots).
 * Add concept of gpgcakeys to yum (see yum.conf for explanation)
 * Grouplist separates langonly groups into their own section

== Significant bugfixes ==

 * Copy yumdb.installed_by/etc. if repoXML or loginuid doesn't exist.
 * Fix --nogpgcheck when using dynamic repos.
 * Fix "history undo" when dealing with obsoleting packages.
 * Fix verification of symlinks.
 * Fix obsoletes processing (mainly for local pkgs.).
 * Use the correct urlgrabber opts. for getting gpgkeys.
 * Don't re-decompress MD each time, use the same name.
 * Fix problem with GPG key importing and auto-close.
 * Add sha384 checksum, to allowed checksums (repos. can now use it).
 * Handle unique MD files, when we have .xml only MD.
 * Work around bad epoch data in updateinfo MD.
 * Remove old txmbr's in reinstall.
 * Unicide fixes.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 * Do the fnmatch => regex change, for searchPackageProvides.
 * Speedup "provides 'perl(*)' etc. by 40% ish. (don't check files).
 * Only do a filelists vs. primary match check once per. run (instead of once per. file lookup).
 * Don't do lookups on oldreqs against the rpmdb, old super defensive code.
 * Speedup rpmdb.pkglist time.
 * Don't "drop cache" all of the rpmdb data, makes install/remove/etc. faster.
 * Don't re-decompress MD each time, use the same name.
 * Make obsoletes calculation faster.
 * Make updates calculation faster.

== API changes ==

 * Add GPG CA keys functionality.
 * Fix problems with auto_close.
 * clean functions will now remove any sqlite-journal files.
 * Add ability to save/load a transaction, post depsolve.
 * Add a counter to the transaction, which is incremented when it changes.
 * Use the newer rpm conflict index, if available (4.9.x).
 * Add ud/od modes to txmbrs.
 * Add argument to searchNames() to it can return pkgtups.
 * Parse severity from updateinfo.
 * History packages now have a '<history>' repoid.
 * {{{PackageObject.__eq__}}} will now deal with objects that lack .repoid.

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.29 - 206 commits: Thu Jan 13 00:36:28 2011 -0500

64 files changed,  16,179 insertions(+),   8,438 deletions(-)
32 files changed,   2,295 insertions(+),     426 deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}
