{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.17">3.2.17 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.18
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.19">&rarr; 3.2.19</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 *  Add @group cmd line support to install/update/remove.
 *  Add repo_gpgcheck support.
 *   Fix for repolist/etc. to work with repo names that contain utf-8.
 *   Add total download stats. line in command line.
 *   Don't fail at arg. limit, do the cmd multiple times (search, list, etc.).
 *   Give more info. when we fail the disk space checks.
 *   Add --enableplugin option, this overrides --disableplugin.
 *   Give nicer messages when we can't find things due to case sensitivity.
 *   Add repo. stats. to "repolist -v".
 *   groupremove doesn't emit "No package matched" warnings.
 *   Add groupinfo -v list the versions of packages (installed, or available)
 *   Use RepoMD.timestamp for timestamp checking, and tweak the error message

== Resource improvement changes ==

 *   Minor speedup for init. of lots of disabled repos.
 *   Add a look-aside cache for the 666 requires on a single package problem.
 *   Add skip_all optimization to a few more places.

== API changes ==

 *  Add @group cmd line support to install/update/remove.
 *  Add repo_gpgcheck support.
 *   Add get_applicable_notices() for security plugin etc.
 *   Use hashlib when available, and allow sha256 when using it.
 *   Add a yum.__version_info__ for easy testing.
 *   selectGroup takes group_package_types and enable_group_conditionals.
 *   remove has option to turn off "No package matched" warnings.
 *   Add simpleEnvraList()
 *   Add RepoMD.timestamp
 *   Add the XML MD generation calls from createrepo

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.18 -  73 commits: Thu Aug 7 09:30:28 2008 -0400
26 files changed,  3,950 insertions(+),   630 deletions(-)
20 files changed,  1,183 insertions(+),   287 deletions(-) [main]
}}}
