{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.27">3.2.27 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.28
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.29">&rarr; 3.2.29</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 * Failure of "reinstall provides" now shows the correct packages.
 * The data for command line, in history and yumdb, now contains all options (eg. --security).
 * Add yum config. and enabled repos. and yum history additional data.
 * Show a message when a user tries to run history commands, and history isn't readable.
 * Cleanup the message for "do you want to install key XYZ".
 * Don't allow users to remove the running kernel.
 * Allow reinstall of installonly packages.
 * Cleanup print of packages and their states in "history info".
 * Save installed_by and changed_by in the yumdb, and output in info -v.
 * Cleanup printing of install/downgrade/reinstall.
 * Don't do chain removals, when using downgrade and deps. are removed.
 * Add exit_on_lock config. option (or --setopt).
 * Add cmdline to history.
 * Add rpmdb problems to history.
 * Add skip broken packages to history.
 * Help users out when repos. aren't enabled in clean/etc.
 * Can pass multiple arguments to "yum check".
 * Ignore "yum check" problems with packages being removed.
 * Add total remove size, when just doing removes.
 * Move protect-packages plugin into core, defaults to: "yum, glob:/etc/yum/protected.d"
 * Add glob: syntax to all options which are lists.
 * Add '''simple''' unfilled requirements test, when we compare providers.
 * Add deselections to install, update, downgrade, remove (Eg. install @blah -foo). 
 * Allow "nocontexts" in conf.tsflags, if supported in rpm.
 * Add yum check sub-commands (included in "all"): obsoleted and provides.
 * Add a header to the automatic yum check output
 * Add /etc/yum/vars
 * Allow: "yum version group blah" to just output the version for the blah version group.
 * Users can export TMPDIR to specify an alternate directory to use for non-root caches.
 * Add --setopt option to the cli.
 * Add the groupremove_leaf_only option.
 * Fix the "user" column width for history summary.
 * Put "EE" in history list, if the transaction had error output.
 * Add provides data to dep. failure messages.
 * Return errors on "yum install" if no packages could be found.
 * Add distro-sync command.

== Significant bugfixes ==

 * Fix for when /proc isn't mounted.
 * Fix gpg key removal when the key has a space in it's provides.
 * Don't record transactions run with RPMTRANS_FLAG_TEST.
 * Don't install pkgs. which are obsoleted _only_ by installed pkgs.
 * More random unicide ... history problems, and comparing provides.
 * Don't traceback on empty transactions in depsolver.
 * We'll now install local pkgs. which only obsolete something.
 * Speedup large list output, like "yum list installed".
 * Fix for compare_providers() skipping packages that are installed and == version.
 * Fix packages excluded after bing put in "yb.up".
 * Fix adding pkgExcluders after packages have been loaded (versionlock/etc.)
 * Get the arch. correct when installing new multilib pkgs. that are obsoleters of what was requested.
 * Fix weird, and very old, depsolving bug with requirements of requirements.
 * Move the yum rpmdb indexes to /var/lib/yum/rpmdb-indexes ... helps mock.
 * Setup the permissions on the yum.log file.
 * Fixes for double prepending installroot (preupgrade/etc.).
 * Catch the new 4.8.0 can't open rpmdb error.
 * Depsolving problems where obsoleting packages don't provide the thing we required from their obsoletee.
 * Workaround MD reget problems.
 * Don't traceback on subkey only GPG keys.
 * Don't traceback for normal users, when they can't open the history DB.
 * syslog configuration.
 * Fix search for keys=True API users, like PK.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 * If yumdb entries are the same, hardlink them instead of writing new versions.
 * If yumdb entries are hardlinked then cache based on dev/inode.
 * Optionally collapse libc provides/requires.
 * Big speedup for "yum remove".
 * Don't do rpmdb checks, when history isn't configured.
 * Enable conditional "big update" speedup, disable if a using a package from a repo. without pkgfiles index.
 * Speedup returnNewestByName(), for at least old repodiff.
 * Add caches for multiple .install/.remove calls.

== API changes ==

 * Fix API break for rpm transaction errors (Eg. disk full).
 * Add plugin hook/callback for pkg.verify(), also add objects so data can be changed.
 * Add plugin hook for compare_providers.
 * Add .history.write_addon_data().
 * Add historyend and historybegin plugin hooks.
 * Save installed_by and changed_by in the yumdb.
 * Add caching to getloginuid().
 * Add pre/post verifytrans plugin hooks.
 * Fix for rpm 4.8.0 flags being long, not int.
 * Catch the new 4.8.0 can't open rpmdb error.
 * Remove all internal uses of has_key, for py3k compat.
 * Add tsInfo.deselect() for anaconda/kickstart.
 * Add pkg.obsoletedBy().
 * Add primary_only arg. to returnFileTypes().
 * Add /etc/yum/vars.
 * Add provides_for as an arg. to .install().
 * Add .readable to the history object.

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.28 - 271 commits: Fri Jul 30 16:28:35 2010 -0400

54 files changed,  13,765 insertions(+),   3,450 deletions(-)
33 files changed,   3,146 insertions(+),     892 deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}
