{{{
#!html
<h1 style="text-align: center;">
 <a style="position: absolute; left:  0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.23">3.2.23 &larr;</a>
  What's new in 3.2.24
 <a style="position: absolute; right: 0; font-size: 50%;" href="3.2.25">&rarr; 3.2.25</a>
</h1>
}}}

== User Interface changes ==

 * Add the '''version''' command, this is probably most useful when you are working with large numbers of computers which should be identical.
 * Allow POSIX shell like quotes for urls, in yum.conf and *.repo files etc.
   * Eg. baseurl = "http://example.com/blah foo"
 * Yum will now refuse to install a package that is '''obsoleted''' by a package that is currently installed.
 * --color=off Now works.
 * The yum-plugin-aliases plugin now works on commands you type into "yum shell".
 * If a package is being reinstalled or downgraded, it is displayed as such when listing the transaction (instead of Eg. being marked as an install and remove).
 * Fix the bad exit code from rpm, on reinstall, due to removal of the remove part of reinstall.
 * "yum reinstall" of a package that is installed, but not available for reinstall, will now give a message to the user telling them that.
 * Skip updateinfo files that are broken, where before we gave a message and stopped yum.
 * Don't error out if the user tries to update a package that doesn't exist.
 * Add sslverify etc. config. options.
 * Add installonly package attribute in yumdb, Eg. "yumdb set installonly keep kernel-blah" will mark that package as not being removed.

== Resource improvement changes ==

 * Speed up searchFiles(), this will mostly affect basename searches. Eg. yum provides "*/gedit"
 * We don't need to download filelists in some cases where we did before.
 * Speed up installs with lots of providers. Eg. yum install "font(:lang=en)"
 * The backend code for processing excludes was rewritten, significant improvements were made to "cost excludes" and "includepkgs".

== API changes ==

 * Moved to NSS using urlgrabber.
 * Allow callers to set most of the repo. directory attributes again.
 * addPackageExcluder() was added to all repo objects, as part of the new exclude backend code.
 * We now process config. variables (like $basearch and $releasever) in cachedir/installroot/etc.
 * Add simpleVersion() to rpmdb and pkgSack.
 * Added checksum_type and checksum_data, from the package to be installed, to the yumdb (simpleVersion() uses this).

=== Developer stats. ===

{{{
3.2.24 - 165 commits: Thu Sep 3 14:03:37 2009 -0400
50 files changed, 11,642 insertions(+),  3,545 deletions(-)
25 files changed,  1,601 insertions(+),    485 deletions(-) [yum rpmUtils bin *.py]
}}}
